# Growth Strategy

This is my [replication](https://github.com/yiqiao-yin/Introduction-to-Machine-Learning-Big-Data-and-Application/blob/bfa7eaaad8066c744617538b7e09dfdf9ad74ddc/scripts/R/2021Summer/day_4.R#L321-L342) of Growth Strategy, a factor-based trading algorithm initially developed by Carhart (1995). In order to fully understand the growth strategy, it is important to first understand the [FF3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fama%E2%80%93French_three-factor_model) of which it serves as the foundation of asset pricing and the factor-based trading algorithm.

I will skip the introduction of FF3 because the link above explains the basic terminologies. I would like to point out the motivation of the discovery of each factor in the following which is something people tend to miss. 

- Market Factor: As the first factor and derived from the [Markowicz Bullet Curve in Modern Portfolio Theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modern_portfolio_theory) in the FF3 model, the market, *MKT*, factor holds its certain position in the field though it does not help you hand craft a portfolio to generate market beating performances. If you simply hold the market portfolio, you will perform just like the market return. The other way is also true. If you provide a vector of portfolio returns and I model it using the first factor, *MKT*, obtaining statistically significant regression coefficient, the portfolio you provided is merely a market portfolio and there is no special skills worth discussing.
- Small-Minus-Big: In addition to the first factor, it is empirically supported that a benchmark-beating strategy can be found by taking money away from the large market capitalization stocks and putting the money in small market capitalization stocks. In doing so, we are able to construct a benchmark (here it merely refers to the first factor, *MKT*) beating portfolio and to create arbitrage opportunity.
- High-Minus-Low: In addition to the first two factors (or trading strategies), a third trading strategy can be discovered using the old-school [Benjamin Graham](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Benjamin_Graham) philosophy. The philosophy porposes a very simple strategy: to invest your money in stocks that have robust intrinsic value yet traded at a discounted price with comfortable margin of safety. This statement has a lot of subjective choices and threshold involved. As a matter of fact, it has too many thresholds involved to be consistent. It most certainly will be different for every each individual who executes this strategy. No empirical evidence has yet been able to be discovered except that [Warren Buffett](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Warren_Buffett) is an exceptionally great value investor out of many value investors failed miserably. This third factor attempts to replicate this philosophy in a very simple set up. Every company has book value ([Total Assets](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asset)) and market capitalization. The first measures intrinsic value and the latter measures the extrinsic value. This third factor proposes to trade off the ratio of book value over market capitalization.

Question: how to beat the FF3?

# Development of the Growth Strategy

The above background provides the motivation to develop a new trading strategy that follows the same paradigm but produces benchmark-beating performance. This is the motivation to produce the *growth strategy*. I replicated Carhart's work and this is a simple adaption of the growth strategy. It tells a very simple story. A portfolio can be constructed using growth rate of the stock universe. Every month we investigate the growth rate of each stock in the data universe and we sort the stock growth rates from top to bottom. We put our money in the stocks with the top growth rate and we repeated doing this every month. 

A user-friendly interactive web-based application is developed [here](https://y-yin.shinyapps.io/YINS-Q-BRANCH/) and we can explore this benchmark beating portfolio. Please be patient with this app as it is downloading stock data live on a daily basis.

# More on Visualization

There are the following resources that can be helpful for you.
- *plotly* This is a visualization package that displays user-friendly interactive graphs. A basic tutorial is [here](https://plotly.com/r/plotly-fundamentals/). 
- *dygraphs* This is another visualization package that displays user-friendly interactive plots. A basic tutorial is [here](https://rstudio.github.io/dygraphs/). 

Remark: There are some commentaries online about the difference of using the above packages. A famous [one](https://jtr13.github.io/spring19/group8.html) is posted and it speaks of the general consensus that *dygraphs* might be easier to use and design then *plotly*. They can both do amazing things in both *R* and *Python*. However, *dygraphs* is recommended more for beginners while sophisticated programmers can use either *dygraphs* or *plotly*. Here is another [commentary](https://dirkmjk.nl/en/354/interactive-charts--are-dygraphs-or-plotly-alternatives-for-d3) on the difference between *dygraphs* and *plotly*.
